- [Instructor] Although many organizations
are moving away from deploying to Tomcat
because of Spring Boot's embedded server container,
you may find yourself in an organization
that still desires Tomcat.
Microsoft Azure meets
this business functionality requirement
with similar automated creation of GitHub Actions,
just like we covered in the previous video.
First, let's open up IntelliJ
and open our project code we've been working with
in our own personal GitHub accounts.
My code base is in my home directory
under SpringBootProdProduction.
This will map to the lab exercise files
of 0602 begin and end.
Inside the terminal type git branch,
and if you're not on the main branch,
go ahead and switch to the main branch,
git switch main, clear the screen.
Then we'll type git fetch origin,
and this will be followed by git pull origin.
Because we're going to be working with war file deployment
to Tomcat in this video,
we will need to make a few modifications
to our source code just as we did in the past.
But first let's go ahead
and create the new war workflow Azure branch.
We'll type git checkout dash b war workflow Azure
and hit Enter.
This will create a branch and of course, check it out.
Now let's go ahead
and push this branch to our remote repository,
type git push dash u origin, war workflow underscore Azure
and hit Enter.
We'll make our final changes to this project
after Azure has put the new workflow in the project.
Let's go ahead and switch back to Azure.
We'll click on all resources,
we'll click Create and then select Web App, Create.
In the resource group, click Create New.
We'll call this Spring Boot Azure war workflow group,
and click OK.
Our web app name will be very similar,
Spring Boot Azure war workflow web app.
For the runtime, we'll select Java 11
and for the web stack server
we're going to select Tomcat 9.0.
All of the remaining options we'll leave in default.
Click Review and Create,
and if you're happy with your selections, click Create.
Once the deployment of the resource group
and web app service is complete,
we'll go ahead and click on Go To Resource.
Then in the left side menu option, click on Configuration.
Hopefully this is sounding familiar
because Microsoft Azure
has made this process very easy for us.
Under the configurations page,
click on Application Settings, then New Application Setting.
We're going to provide our spring profiles active
and for the value, we type dev comma Azure comma Tomcat,
and then click OK.
This will be followed by clicking Save and Continue.
Next, click on Deployment Center
and we're going to start selecting our source
under Settings, GitHub.
We're already signed in to our GitHub account.
Select the organization,
the repository SpringBootProduction,
and then the branch we created war workflow Azure.
We'll leave the workflow option
add workflow pre-selected.
We'll click Preview File, and as you can see here,
this is the new workflow that will be generated
and inserted into our project.
Again, we'll need to change the build with Maven
as well as the path to our target war.
We'll click Close and Save.
This is going to fire off the changes
to our repository branch that we made.
Next, let's go ahead and go back to IntelliJ.
Let's clear the screen,
type git fetch origin, git pull origin.
This will sync our work
and pull down the new GitHub workflow
that Azure has created for us.
If we scroll to the top and click on workflows,
we now see the two workflows.
We're going to delete the old workflow,
the build package deploy AWS yml.
Right click, select Delete and OK.
Go ahead and open the war workflow Azure Spring Boot.
We'll modify the name build with Maven
to build with Gradle,
we'll change the run to dot slash gradlew clean build
and will change the path
to build slash libs slash SpringBootProdApplication.
We'll save that
and now we'll go to our build Gradle file.
Underneath ID Java, hit Enter, type ID war,
underneath the plugins, hit Enter a couple times
and type boot war, curly brackets, archive file name
equals springbootprodapplication.war.
We'll save that.
We'll go down to the dependencies
underneath the implementation for starter actuator.
We'll type provide a runtime org
springframework.boot
colon Spring Boot dash starter dash Tomcat.
Open up the application properties.
We'll type server servlet context path
equals SpringBootProdApplication.
And the final change we'll make
is to our SpringBootProdApplication class.
We type extends Spring Boot servlet initializer.
Underneath the public static void main method,
we'll add an override.
This will be protected SpringApplicationBuilder.
The name of the method will be configure.
This will accept a SpringApplicationBuilder.
We'll call the parameter builder, the curly brackets.
Now we're going to return
using the parameterbuilder dot the method sources,
and we'll supply this
with SpringBootProdApplication.class.
With all this done, let's go ahead and commit our changes.
Git add.gitcommit dash M changes for Azure war workflow
and we'll push these changes,
git push dash U origin war workflow Azure.
Hit Enter.
I just realized we have one other change
that we need to make.
Let's go back to our workflow
and we're going to change the branch
that this has acted upon here.
We'll change this to main.
We'll save it.
Now keep in mind that since we just committed the code
and pushed the branch with the workflow
specifying the push branch on war workflow Azure,
an action will have kicked off.
We'll go ahead and commit the new changes.
Git add, git commit,
and I'll use my previous commands to speed this up.
Let's go back to our GitHub repository.
We'll click on Code
and we'll click on Compare and Pull Request.
Click Create Pull Request.
This will be followed by merge pull request
and confirm merge.
With that complete, let's click on Actions.
We see that changes for Azure war workflow completed
but let's take a look at our merge pull request.
Click on the Build.
Okay, with the build completed,
we'll click on Deploy Job
and we can see that the artifact was downloaded.
It was deployed to the Azure web app
and we can see it was completed.
So next we can go ahead and click on the link here.
And this will load
the Spring Boot Azure war workflow web app into the browser.
Now keep in mind that on the first time deploy of a web app,
it will take a few minutes.
The other aspect here is
because the web app requires a context path,
when we load the page, we will see this 404 error.
Let's copy our context path and type it in.
Hit Enter, and we have our application.